---
layout: post
title: Democratic User Journeys
description: Can users decide user journeys?
tags: participatory
---

Can User Journeys be made in a more [[participatory]] way?  A way that better
reflects that users value and need from a product?

Working at Google we made a lot of product decisions.  What features to create.
What features to turn down. What featuers were more important than other
features.  What features could be hidden through a series of unknown button
clicks and which would be really really obvious and in users faces.  We made
these decisions often through a mix of user research studies, live user
experiments, sifting through lots of product usage data, and sometimes just
based on internal needs or dedires.

The last one clearly discarded user goals and wants but what about the first 3
approaches?  They at least intend at doing something that will be beneficial to
users.  We ask them how they feel about some proposed product changes.  We try
a small version of the idea and observe from a distance how it goes.  We make
inferences based on "data".  These all have the ideal of user first design
decisions.  We could be more systematic with it by doing all three and turning
them into a concise deck of hypothetical meta-users that represent core user
journeys and why they are important.  That gives us as product developers a
better emotional feel for who we're building for.

But we never really went so far as just openly asking users what they wanted
and why they wanted it.  And how much they wanted two different features that
might be in tension with each other.  We didn't do that because it sounds
really hard.  It sounds like a lot of data and a lot of noise and a lot of
interpretation.  But really, it's the same amount of difficulty as what
typically did anyway.  And if done right, it gets our decisions closer to what
users actually want.
